# Calculations-in-SQL
This repository shows how I made some calculations with SQL.
# About the project and datset
In this project, i did basic calculations in SQL using arithmetic operators. For the dataset i analyzed a public dataset 'subway ridership' data that describes average weekly ridership for each individual year to help improve the quality of the city’s public transportation, using basic calculations in SQL. The dataset describes the average weekly subway ridership in New York City from 2013-2018. The columns include: subway stations, subway routes, weekly ridership for each year (2013-2018), the change in ridership from 2017 to 2018 (both in raw numbers and percent), and the ridership rank of each station in 2018. Each row corresponds to a different station in the subway system. 
# Description
Logged into BigQuery and searched up the dataset from the 'bigquery-public-data' item pinned to the Explorer menu. Found the new_york_subway dataset, Opened the dropdown and click the 'subway_ridership_2013_present' to open and examine the data table. I proceeded to find data on the change in weekly ridership from 2013 to 2014 and to do this i used SQL to subtract the number of riders in 2013 from the number of riders in 2014. link is below, when ran it shows the change in ridership from 2013 to 2014.
# https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?sq=909859753623:143a942df4f740918e7b84c51566cf5d
Next i found the average weekly ridership for a longer period of time, such as the multi-year period from 2013-2016. To do this, i combined multiple arithmetic operations in a query. The average of a set of numbers is the sum of the numbers divided by the total number of values in the set. There are four values in the new set (ridership data for 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016). I used SQL to sum the numbers for each year and divided that sum by 4. Link is below, when ran it shows the trend in ridership at each station from 2013 to 2016.
# https://console.cloud.google.com/bigquery?sq=909859753623:262fa28f5ab346a28965ee51f8cf1249
# Summary
This kind of data is useful for managing public transportation. It can help determine which stations or routes to expand due to increased ridership. Using basic calculations in query allows you to quickly discover significant patterns in your data. For the first query, the Atlantic Av - Barclays Ctr station gained an average of 1,774 riders per week. The 4 Av station lost 321 riders. For the second query, weekly ridership at the Atlantic Av - Barclays Ctr station increased every year since 2013. Further, for the years 2014, 2015, and 2016, weekly ridership at Atlantic Av - Barclays Ctr exceeded the overall average for the period 2013-2016 (listed in the average column).
